---
title: "VR Kitchen for Arçelik"
layout: post
---


The project was a collaborative effort aimed at enhancing the user experience and efficiency for the renowned household appliances company, Arçelik. As part of a cohesive team, I held the role of VR developer, contributing to the creation of an innovative concept.


Our primary objective was to establish a virtual environment that would enable users to engage with Arçelik's products, replicating the in-store experience from the comfort of their own space.

Through the utilization of virtual reality technology, we envisioned a platform that allowed users to interact with Arçelik's appliances, getting a sense of their features and functionalities as if they were physically present in a store. This immersive experience not only offered convenience but also empowered customers to make more informed purchasing decisions.

Beyond the customer-oriented aspect of the project, our team also devised practical solutions to address the challenges faced by Arçelik's engineering teams. With the rise of remote work, it became crucial to facilitate seamless collaboration among engineers spread across different locations. Consequently, we developed a range of tools and systems that enabled Arçelik's engineers to work together effectively, even when physically distant. These solutions not only improved communication and coordination but also promoted productivity and innovation within the company.


I used Unity and SteamVR for this project. And it is tested in HTC Vive VR Headset. 

## Video

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/TEBr9mIGF-Y" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
