---
title: "Stretch to color - Mini Game"
layout: post
---

So, it all started when I accidentally broke a stretch resistance component. Instead of letting it go to waste, we decided to turn it into something fun and exciting.


We got our hands on a rubber chord sensor, which is normally used to measure resistance. But we saw an opportunity to do something creative with it. When you stretch the rubber cord, something interesting happens—the length of the cord increases along with its resistance. That got us thinking about how we could use this property for a project.

We dived into coding with Python, crafting a script that would connect the rubber cord's resistance changes with a visual element. Our canvas of choice was a circle, a simple yet versatile shape that could respond to the data we were working with. With an Arduino in the mix, we were able to capture the resistance measurements from the rubber cord.

As the rubber cord stretched and its resistance shifted, the Python script came into play, orchestrating a captivating visual display. This display translated the resistance readings into colors, creating a visual representation of the data. We decided on a color scheme that made sense—yellow indicated low resistance, which means the cord wasn't stretched much, while red symbolized high resistance, showing that the cord was stretched quite a bit.

What we ended up with was a project that combined hardware, programming, and a touch of artistry. It was a way to give a broken component a second chance and also demonstrate how technology and creativity can come together in unexpected ways. This whole experience highlighted how accidents can lead to some of the most innovative ideas and solutions.


## Arduino Code

{% highlight ruby %}
#include <Arduino.h>
#include <ArduinoJson.h>

// This should be the same value of the used resistor
#define RESISTOR 20000 

// This is the pin where the cord is connected to
#define RUBBERCORDPIN A1

const int capacity = JSON_OBJECT_SIZE(2);

void setup() {
  Serial.begin(9600);
}

void loop() {
  int value; 
  int raw = 0;          // Raw input value 
  int vin = 5;          // Store input voltage, this should be 5 
  float vout = 0;        // Store output voltage 
  float refresistor1 = 20;  // Variable to store the R1 value 
  float refresistor2 = 0;  //  Value is determined by the voltage 
                          //that falls across after it has been measured.  
  float buffer = 0;      // Buffer variable for calculation 
  value = analogRead(RUBBERCORDPIN);     //Read the value
                                          //Just like we did earlier
  vout = (5.0 / 1023.0) * value;         // Calculates the voltage 
  buffer = (vin / vout) - 1; 
  refresistor2 = refresistor1 / buffer; 
  // Serial.print("Voltage: "); 
  // Serial.println(vout);                  // Outputs the information 
  // Serial.print("Resistance: ");  
  // Serial.println(refresistor2);


  StaticJsonDocument<capacity> root;
  root["resistance"] = refresistor2;
  root["voltage"] = vout;

  serializeJson(root, Serial);
  Serial.print("\n");
  delay(33); 
}
{% endhighlight %}
  

## Python Code

 {% highlight ruby %}
  from queue import LifoQueue
import serial
import threading
import json
import sys
import numpy as np
import pygame

# This function updates r,g,b values (mainly g to obtain a spectrum from yellow to red)
def update_r_g_b(resistance,min_res,max_res):
  if max_res == 0:
    return 255,255,0
  # subtract min resistance
  normalized = resistance - min_res
  # Divide by max_res
  normalized = normalized / max_res
  # Subtract from 1 to get yellow for low resistance values and red for high resistance values
  normalized = 1 - normalized
  # Return each of r,g,b as int in range [0, 255]
  return 255, int(normalized*255),0

# Open serial port of arduino for communication
ser = serial.Serial()
ser.baudrate = 9600
ser.port = '/dev/cu.usbmodem141101' #replace this with arduino's port
ser.open()

def read_serial(q):
  while True:
    try:
      # Read from serial connection
      line = ser.readline()
      j_obj = json.loads(line)
      resistance = j_obj['resistance'] # From json object obtain resistance value
      q.put(resistance)
      #print("Resistance is {}".format(resistance))
    except:
      continue


# This function below defines what the main thread will do while drawing
def my_draw(q):
  # Initialize pygame with a display of size 500,500
  pygame.init()
  window = pygame.display.set_mode((500, 500))
  r=255
  g=255
  b=0
  # Draw Yellow circle
  pygame.draw.circle(window, (r, g, b), (250, 250), 250, 0)
  resistance = 0.0
  min_res = None
  max_res = None
  while 1:
    for event in pygame.event.get():
      if event.type == pygame.QUIT:
        sys.exit()
    pygame.display.update()
    # Get resistance whenever queue is not empty
    if q.qsize() > 0:
      resistance = q.get(block=False)
      #print("Resistance is {}".format(resistance))
      if min_res is None:
        min_res = resistance
        max_res = resistance
      if min_res > resistance:
        min_res = resistance
      if max_res < resistance:
        max_res = resistance
      # updates r,g,b using maximum and minimum resistance values seen as well as current resistance value
      r,g,b= update_r_g_b(resistance,min_res,max_res)
      if g > 255:
        g = 255
      # Draw the circle
      pygame.draw.circle(window, (r, g, b), (250, 250), 250, 0)

# Start a queue
queue = LifoQueue(1)

# t2 will be the thread to read the serial data
t2 = threading.Thread(target=read_serial, args=(queue, ))
t2.start()

# For drawing we will not start a new thread but it will be done in the main thread as that is what pygame wants
my_draw(queue)
# When done join t2 thread
t2.join()
# Close serial connection
ser.close()

  {% endhighlight %}

## Video

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/UzsSNkoYoXU" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
